About ASDictionary
==================

ASDictionary exports scriptable Mac applications' dictionaries in plain text 
or HTML format. It can also be used to generate application 'glues' for use 
with objc-appscript. Requires Mac OS X 10.4 or later. 


Exporting application dictionaries
----------------------------------

1. Use the 'Dictionary' menu to select one or more scriptable applications 
   or scripting additions, or drag-and-drop one or more application and/or 
   scripting addition files onto ASDictionary's application icon or Export 
   window.

2. Select one or more file formats: plain text, single-file HTML and/or frame-
   based HTML. If an HTML format is chosen, check the 'Compact classes' option 
   to combine duplicate classes into one. (For example, TextEdit defines a 
   'document' class in its Standard Suite, and again in its TextEdit Suite.) 
   Check the 'Show invisibles' option to include hidden classes and commands 
   in HTML output.

3. Select one or more terminology styles.

4. Click 'Export', and select a destination folder for the generated files.


Generating objc-appscript glues
-------------------------------

1. Use the 'Dictionary' menu to select one or more scriptable applications, or
   drag-and-drop one or more application files onto ASDictionary's application 
   icon or Export window.

2. Select the objc-appscript glue format.

3. The ObjC class name prefix for each glue is shown in the Prefix column. 
   The default prefix is an abbreviation of the application's name (e.g. 
   Address Book becomes AB, iCal becomes IC), but this can be changed by 
   clicking on it and typing a prefix of your choice. Take care not to use 
   a prefix that may cause the glue's class names to collide with existing 
   Cocoa classes (e.g. 'NS' is a particularly common prefix and best avoided) 
   otherwise the glue may not compile.

4. Click 'Export', and select a destination folder for the generated glue. 
   Each glue folder's name will consist of its class name prefix followed 
   by 'Glue' (e.g. AddressBookGlue, ICGlue).


Scripting ASDictionary
----------------------

ASDictionary provides a single AppleScript command, 'export', for exporting 
application and scripting addition dictionaries. For example:

tell application "ASDictionary"
  export {POSIX file "/Applications/iCal.app", 
           POSIX file"/Applications/iTunes.app"}
         to POSIX file "/Users/jsmith/Documents"
         using file formats {single file HTML, frame based HTML}
         with exporting to subfolders
end tell

See ASDictionary's built-in dictionary for more information.


Notes
-----

- Caution: ASDictionary will overwrite any existing files when exporting 
  dictionaries.

- The HTML export options support both applications and scripting additions.
  The plain text and objc glue export options support applications only.

- Exporting larger dictionaries may take several seconds; GUI responsiveness 
  may be limited during this time. HTML export options take longer due to the 
  additional processing involved.

- While ASDictionary is fairly tolerant of weird and buggy application 
  dictionaries, HTML generation may fail on a few especially strange ones. 
  Should this happen, try exporting the dictionary as plain text instead.

- The appscript bridges for Python and Ruby depend on ASDictionary to support 
  their built-in help systems. You can specify text wrapping options for help 
  system output in ASDictionary's Preferences window. 

- Many thanks to the following for comments, suggestions and bug reports: 
  Philip Aker, Emmanuel Levy, Tim Mansour, Matt Neuburg, Jake Pietrykowski, 
  Courtney Schwartz


Copyright
---------

ASDictionary is released into the public domain.
